# Data-Ingestion-with-github-Api

This project uses Github search Api to get users that are into a certain field or programming language or anything at all, depends on the intended use case.
This project focuses on getting users that do machine learning in Lagos, Nigeria and Rwanda.

## Process

The necessary libraries were imported, especially the PyGithub library - an open source library used to access the GitHub REST API. This library enables one to manage GitHub resources such as repositories, user profiles, and organizations in your Python applications.

This library can be used to access public and private data, so it requires a login into my github account. There are three ways to PyGithub to access an account:
- **Username and password**
```
# using username and password
g = Github("user", "password")
```
- **Access token**
```
# using an access token
g = Github("access_token")
```
- **Github Enterprise with custom Hostname**
```
# Github Enterprise with custom hostname
g = Github(base_url="https://{hostname}/api/v3", login_or_token="access_token")
```

I used the access token for this project and it can be generated by simply visiting this [https://github.com/settings/tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens). 

I saved my access code in a separate file (config) and imported it into the main script to maintain the privacy and avoid unauthorised access to my account.
The get_query() function was used to get the search query from user input and the get_user_info() function was user to perform the user search based on the query. The result from the search was then stored in a dictionary and this dictionary was the return value of the function.

Finally, the result of the search was displayed as a pandas DataFrame.

Although this was a project to explore the use of the PyGithub library, the next step in this project would be to perform an analysis based on the given search results.
